Using Geolink modular oecanorgraphy Ontology

There is an issue on what is an event in this ontology and if it has been defined well enough to distinguish from process.
Myaybe see DOLCE on this.
Agent types.  Collector is one of them and DataCite has some roles including Publisher....
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
What is the context for samples - it involves things we see in the data such as Geological age (time setting), place and featuress 
and propoerties. See SESAR data with link provided by Steve. 
See http://www.geosamples.org/help/vocabularies for vocabularies and also http://www.geosamples.org/search

Sample types page describes the different samples that can be registered. The sample type vocabulary is listed below. 
  Core - long cylindrical cores
  Core Half Round - half-cylindrical products of along-axis split of a whole round
  Core Piece - material occurring between unambiguous [as curated] breaks in recovery. 
  Core Quarter Round - quarter-cylindrical products of along-axis split of a half round.
  Core Section - arbitrarily cut segments of a "core"
  Core Section Half  - half-cylindrical products of along-axis split of a section or its component fragments through a selected diameter.
  Core Sub-Piece - unambiguously mated portion of a larger piece noted for curatorial management of the material. 
  Core Whole Round - cylindrical segments of core or core section material.
  CTD - a CTD (Conductivity, Temperature, and Depth) cast sample.
  Cuttings - loose, coarse, unconsolidated material suspended in drilling fluid.
  Dredge  - a group of rocks collected by dragging a dredge along the seafloor.
  Grab - a sample (sometimes mechanically collected) from a deposit or area, not intended to be representative of the deposit or area.
  Hole - hole cavity and walls surrounding that cavity.  
  Individual Sample - a sample that is an individual unit, including rock hand samples, a biological specimen, or a bottle of fluid.
                    (seemed like a top level, but then what about multiple samples?)
  Oriented Core - core that can be positioned on the surface in the same way that it was arranged in the borehole before extraction. 
  Other - a sample that does not fit any of the existing type designations. It is expected that further detailed description of the particular sample will be provided.
  Rock Powder - a sample created from pulverizing a rock to powder.
  Site - a place where a sample is collected.(stange to have this here rather than by itself)
  Terrestrial Section - a sample of a section of the near-surface Earth, generally in the critical zone.

<b>SESAR Sample types: What Samples Can Be Registered in SESAR?</b>
The System for Earth Sample Registration registers specimens and related sampling features collected from the natural environment. These include, but are not limited to:
Rock, mineral, or fossil specimens, and sub-samples thereof (e.g. thin sections, mineral concentrates)
Dredges
Cores (rock, sediment, ice) and related core sections, section halves, and samples from cores
Fluid samples (seawater, river or lake water, hydrothermal fluids, porewater)
Drill holes and wells
Soil pedons and samples thereof
Macro- and micro-biology samples

<b>Materials Type </b>

  Biology
  Gas
  Ice
  Liquid>aqueous
  Liquid>organic
  Mineral
  NotApplicable
  Other
  Particulate
  Rock
  Sediment
  Soil
  Synthetic
  
  Note: ODM2 has a tissue type.

<b>Sub-object types listed below are used by the International Ocean Drilling Program-United States Implementing Organization 
(IODP-USIO).</b>
 
      Bead- bead pressed from a powder.
      Chemical Fraction- Parts of a parent sample separated chemically.
      Cube- Equidimensional prism of material.
      Culture- Biological material cultured in geological material.
      Cylinder- Cylinders of material.
      Mechanical Fraction- Parts of a parent sample separated mechanically.
      Powder- Fine-grained (<62 micron), dry, granular material.
      Slab- Rectangular prism of material where one dimension is significantly shorter than the others.
      Smear- A toothpick sample suspended in liquid and fixed on slide.
      Specimen- Material of any shape or form selected for specific characteristics of interest.
      Squeeze Cake- Solid fraction remaining after forced expulsion of interstitial fluids from a source sample; typically has the shape of a cylindrical disc.
      Thin Section- A sub-millimeter thick slice of material mounted on a glass slide.
      Toothpick- Minute amount of material taken for observation.
      U-Channel- Long rectangular prism of material.
      Wedge- Sample form factor named for the tool used to extract it. Typically 5-20 ml in volume.


<u>Steve's Competency quetions.</u>
* Given that we have a Chemical analysis om a sample
1. Where was this sample collected?
2.  What is the provenence (history) of  the analyszed sample material.

* Given a Sample
what  analytic data was derived?

Given a Fossil Sample
Are there any isotopic age data from within 1 kn  of where sample was acquired.


Given video mosaic
Are there any bottom samples in the fielf of view?

Where did Geologist X collect samples in 1970?

SESAR vocabulary and issues with Sample type.
We see many different types of entities in this list.  it included individual sample and core and site.
It might be somewhat hierarchical but seems like a confused hierarchy.

Material category - classification (sub-type of Material)  and field name (free text)  Descriotion
2 types.  One high level (Rock) and one more specific (igneous).

<b>Notes of Feature</b>
Some use a broad Feature concept such as SSN and O & M.
The 'Feature' is the fundamental unit of geospatial information, so the Feature Model is the fundamental meta-model used for developing an Application Schema.
Features are typed objects with identity. This is often referred to as "vector" data in traditional GIS.
Feature types are defined by a characteristic set of properties (i.e. their attributes, associations, operations). A feature type is usually specific to an application domain, and will be part of a Feature Type Catalogue (FTC) that describes a key part of the language of a domain. Features often correspond with objects that are recognisable in the real world, such as road, mine, truck, storm. However, spatial properties are not mandatory, so a feature type could be defined for any item of interest within a domain. This potentially allows data access for both spatial and non-spatial information to be unified through a common interface.
The General Feature Model is formally defined in ISO 19101 and ISO 19109. For a more detailed discussion, see FeatureModel.
The OGC Web Feature Service is the primary interface for feature data.

‘feature’ defined in the ‘Reference Model’ used by OGC and ISO Technical Committee 211 – Geographic Information referring to a
conceptualization of an entity in the real world. 
“Sampling features are distinctive compared with other features from application domains by having navigable associations to 
observations. ”

Examples from ODM2  bore hole, flight line....
GeoFeatures are often distinguished from other features.

SWEET ontology (Steve it is a Wordnet with no definitions) has properties for objects: “temperature”, “pressure”, “height”, “albedo” .
We seem to agree that  these  not feature of Interest but are propertie of Features (of Interest).

Sampling Feature a cruise is a type of a sampling feature
Also: (Simon Cox and O And M see ISO figure for this and https://www.seegrid.csiro.au/wiki/AppSchemas/ObservationsAndSampling)
Sub-types of point, surface, etc.

A sampling feature is established in order to make observations concerning some domain feature. The association Intention shall link
the SF_SamplingFeature to the feature which the sampling feature was designed to sample.
 The target of this association has the role sampledFeature with respect to the sampling feature, and shall not be a sampling feature
 or observation.
 It is usually a real-world feature from an application domain.

EXAMPLE A profile typically samples a water- or atmospheric-column; a well samples the water in an aquifer;
a tissue specimen samples a part of an organism

Observation Model
  Feature of interest
    Observation location
    Observation time
    Observed property and result type
      Scalar-valued properties
      Complex-valued properties
      Variable properties
      Time Series
  Sampling model
    Sampling features classified by shape
    Specimens
    Relationships of sampling features to other features
  
  Observations vs. Interpretations
  Examples
    Observations
    Sampling features
      Wells and aquifers
      Sampling on a ferry track
      Borehole and outcrop
      Assay suite on a specimen collected from an outcrop

  
  OGCInformationModels
    Observations and Measurements specification documents
    parent_gray FeatureModel
    ObservationsAndSampling


<B>Notes on Medium</b>
Sample Medium   The medium in which the sample was collected [e.g. water (Surface Water such as a stream, river, lake, pond, reservoir,
ocean ), air, sediment, etc.  from CUAHSI Community Observations Data Model Working Design Specifications Document
Are MaterialType and Medium the same thing (?)  we may be able to distinguish them.


Notes on Sampling site info
Spatial sampling has a sample point or  sampling surface.


