Pascal's Physical  Sample Feedback

See https://github.com/Vocamp/VocampDC2015/blob/master/Day%201%20VocampDC2015/Pascal%20on%20Sample-GeoVoCampDC.PDF for the slides.

The idea is to make these models easy to understand and he is not a domain experts so he can only comment at the model level.

We have a day 2 type model with some things that need to be developed and modeled.
He looked at the work of GeoLink which touched on this and the topic is not simple.
He has a rough draft from their work which is simple and has 4 main things. We can follow throuhg on this and make it stable.
His model and our match up on the 4 main things starting with Feature.
We have more detail on sampling process and they have more on Properties and InformationObject.
InformationObject carries info related to the sample. It is essenetially a type of collection.

Material is intimately connected to Sample. if you take it away the object disapperars but if the name goes away the object is still there.

Observationevent has result and relates to properties assigned to the sample.  This carries authority.

What exactly is a process for sampling that is stable across domains?  Doug Fils provided some input.
Maybe we take one examle like sea floor drilling as a sub-class say ocean driling.

Feature scares us and is tricky to model. We are aware that is is complicated, but try to make it simple to start with.

Property is also tricky and maybe we make a sub-class that we can model.
Sugestions - see slide

Comments and Questions
Event borrowed from prior work.
Feature of Interest makes sense.  Sampling process probably have some similar distinctions.

Tim on professional mindset and intentions as part of scientific process - shows what we are interested in.
Dave  why don't we talk about object of interest rather than feature of interest?

Feature of Interest is being replaced by Sample of Interest (Cox) 
Pascal would love to get into Feature, but maybe it is useful to get into a shortcut for now.
The competency Qs might be handled without doing too much with feature.  We see gaps in handling the Qs though.

